it might sound unbelievable but we're
closer to 2050
than 1980. oi and though the 80s
may be ancient for some of us they're
alive in our souls
we're back in the 1980s with its
parachute pants
aerobic workouts and ridiculous hair
world population just under 4.5 billion
1980 an average house costs 47
000 the rubik's cube debuts
internationally
originally the rubik's cube was named
magic cube
post-it notes hit the stores in the usa
the original yellow color of the notes
was chosen by accident
the team only had yellow scrap paper
the empire strikes back reaches theaters
it's a rare example of a sequel that
transcends the original movie
queen releases their eighth album the
game
the album is queen's only one to reach
number one in the usa
the international release of pac-man
pac-man was developed by a japanese
company who wanted to create a game that
would appeal to women
1981 the yearly cost to attend harvard
is just ten thousand dollars the first
london marathon takes place with more
than seven thousand participants
in 2019 over 42 000 people participated
the first space shuttle mission nasa
launched a new craft into space to see
if it would return to earth
it did the successful mission lasted two
days and six hours
indiana jones and the raiders of the
lost ark reaches theaters
during the shooting breaks for the movie
steven spielberg wrote a script
that later became e.t the
extraterrestrial
the royal wedding of lady diana spencer
and prince charles
the ceremony was watched by 750 million
people all over the world the dawn
of mtv the first 24 hours music
channel it launched in the united states
at 1201 am
with the words ladies and gentlemen rock
and roll
1982 a one liter bottle of coke
cost 99 cents cold sunday
that day cold air from canada covered
most of the usa
and set cold temperature records in many
places
princess diana gives birth to a son
diana wanted to name him william
but charles rooted for arthur although
the prince was named william
arthur is his middle name invention
of the first emoticons a computer
scientist suggested a combination of
punctuation marks
to express emotions in an email the
first cd player is released
it appeared in japan and could hold up
to one hour and 20 minutes of audio
michael jackson releases his sixth album
thriller
he wanted to make an album where every
song would be awesome
thriller became the best-selling album
of all time
the first artificial heart is implanted
in a person
it's a device that permanently replaces
the actual heart
when it's impossible to find a donor
heart
time names a personal computer the man
of the year
hey you were the person of the year too
in 2006 time named everyone the person
of the year
add this to your resume china reaches a
population of 1 billion it was the first
country to reach this number
india would hit its billion in 2000
1983 a movie ticket cost three bucks
the beginning of the internet era a new
internet protocol was
activated and researchers began to
create the network of networks
the first cell phone is launched it was
a model from motorola and needed about
10 hours to fully charge
afterwards you could talk for a whole 30
minutes
star wars episode 6 return of the jedi
releases
it was almost named revenge of the jedi
but george lucas decided that jedi
should not seek revenge the sith on the
other hand
the lowest temperature on earth is
recorded the temperature reached
minus 128 degrees fahrenheit at the
vostok station in
antarctica microsoft word
1.0 is released however it wasn't
successful for another seven years
until word 3.0 was released 1984
a gallon of gasoline cost one dollar
the first apple macintosh goes on sale
early mac had only the memory of 128
kilobytes
today even an iphone photo uses more
the first untethered walk in outer space
bruce mccandless took a step
out of the spacecraft using only his jet
backpack
without any attached umbilicals the
release of
tetris it was also the first video game
played in space
after a cosmonaut took his game boy and
a tetris cartridge with him on a space
mission
metallica releases the album ride the
lightning
the name of the album was a phrase from
stephen king's the stand
that one of the band members was reading
princess diana gives birth to prince
harry
his actual name is henrik with his full
name being
henry charles albert davis harry is his
nickname
the transformer is pilot releases the
series was created to accompany the
launch of a toy line
1985 a mcdonald's extra value meal costs
2.59 whitney houston releases her debut
album
in the usa the album didn't receive much
attention at first
but it was successful abroad the launch
of the discovery channel
now the channel exists in 170 countries
route 66 is removed from the usa highway
system
after many highway reconstructions when
it was established
route 66 stretched from chicago illinois
to santa monica california
back to the future releases the time
machine was supposed to be a
refrigerator
the first nintendo home game console is
launched in north america
with that release the video game market
that had crashed was restored
the release of windows 1.0 bill gates
and steve jobs both stole
i mean borrowed the idea for the
computer mouse from xerox park
so microsoft and apple each develop
their own
flavor of the graphical interface most
of us use today
1986 a one and a half ounce hershey bar
costs 40 cents the mir space station is
launched
it served as an inhabited research
station where the crew conducted
experiments
and spent months in orbit 1987
michael jackson releases his seventh
album bad
jackson was so obsessed with the beatles
that he bought the rights to their music
black monday that day the stock market
suddenly crashed
it took two years to fully recover
the world's population reaches 5 billion
people
scientists estimated we would hit 10
billion by 2050.
1988 sending a letter cost 25 cents
stephen hawking's a brief history of
time is published
it's a popular science book where
hawking explained basic
concepts as well as black holes and time
travel
1989 a dozen eggs cost 1.22 cents
poly pocket toys appear in stores it was
invented by a man who made a small
doll house in a makeup compact for his
daughter
the release of game boy since girls
weren't much into video games
game boy was designed to appeal to them
and it worked
the premiere of seinfeld jason alexander
actor and director said the script was
so good that he didn't believe it would
be successful
the launch of lexus an employee
responsible for checking all the buttons
had three sets of fake nails to make
sure they'd be comfortable for all the
customers
voyager 2 passes neptune nasa launched
voyager 2 in 1977 to study the planets
after neptune the mission was extended
to study
interstellar space and that's how the
decade ended
passing the baton to the upcoming 90s
but i'll tell you about that sometime in
the near future